---
title: Toolbar Buttons
description: Work with text selections in writer and textarea fields.
---

Kirby Copilot provides a `copilot` button for the Kirby `writer` and `textarea` fields.

Open the prompt dialog by clicking the Copilot button in the toolbar. The selected text (if any) will be appended to the user prompt before sending it to the AI model. Follow the [selected text](#selected-text) section for more information.

This feature is useful when you need to generate content based on existing text, or when you want to generate content for a specific part of the text. It is also useful for nested fields such as writer fields in blocks.

:prose-video{src="/vid/kirby-copilot-writer-prompt-dialog.mp4" poster="/vid/kirby-copilot-writer-prompt-dialog-poster.jpg" width="960" height="540"}

## Shortcuts

To open the prompt dialog programmatically, use the following keyboard shortcuts:

- `Cmd + .` (macOS) or
- `Ctrl + .` (Windows/Linux).

## Writer Fields

If you only want to add the Copilot button to the toolbar without removing the default marks, you must first define all default markers in the field configuration, followed by the `copilot` button.

::preview{src="/img/copilot-field-writer.png"}
::

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
fields:
  text:
    label: Text
    type: writer
    toolbar:
      inline: false
    marks:
      # These are the default marks
      - bold
      - italic
      - underline
      - strike
      - code
      - "|"
      - link
      - email
      - "|"
      - clear
      # Append the Copilot button to the toolbar
      - "|"
      - copilot
```

## Textarea Field

Similarly, you can add the Copilot button to the toolbar of a `textarea` field. The configuration is the same as for the writer field, but with buttons instead of marks.

::preview{src="/img/copilot-field-textarea.png"}
::

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
fields:
  text:
    label: Text
    type: textarea
    buttons:
      # These are the default buttons
      - headlines
      - "|"
      - bold
      - italic
      - code
      - "|"
      - link
      - email
      - file
      - "|"
      - ul
      - ol
      # Append the Copilot button to the toolbar
      - "|"
      - copilot
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-lightbulb-line"}
This can be useful for generating meta descriptions based on the main content of a page, or for generating a summary of a text block. See the [fields as placeholders](/docs/usage/placeholders) documentation for an example.
::

## Selected Text

When you select text in the writer or textarea field and then click the Copilot button, the selected text will be passed to the prompt dialog.

Before the instruction is sent to your AI provider, the selected text is added to the user prompt.

For example, if this is your user prompt:

```txt
Shorten the selected text to 200 characters.
```

Then, the selected text will be added to the prompt, resulting in this final prompt:

```txt
Shorten the selected text to 200 characters.

<selected_text>
(Your selected text will be here)
</selected_text>
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-lightbulb-line"}
The [default system prompt](/docs/configuration/system-prompt#default-system-prompt) is designed to instruct the AI model on how to process the selected text.
::
