---
title: Section Options
description: Define the blueprint properties for the Kirby Copilot section, like the user prompt.
---

## Properties

When the required [global configuration](/docs/configuration/global) is set up, you can define the blueprint properties for the Kirby Copilot section.

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-pending.png"}
::

### `label` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `label` property defines the label of the section.

The default value is `Copilot`.

If you want to change the label, you can do so by setting the `label` property:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
label: My Copilot
```

### `field` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Use the `field` property to tell the Kirby Copilot plugin which field to use for adding generated content.

It has no default value and is required.

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
```

### `userPrompt` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If you want to provide a user or editor with a user prompt, you can define it with the `userPrompt` property. The Panel user will be able to edit the prompt and revert back to the original prompt when changes have been made. In the latter case, an undo button will be shown.

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
userPrompt: Generate a SEO meta description in 140 characters max for my article "{title}":\n{text}'
```

::preview{src="/img/copilot-predefined-user-prompt.png"}
::

Changes to the prompt are stored to the local storage of the user's browser. By default, the user prompt is empty.

::callout{icon="i-ri-lightbulb-line"}
Check out the [`editable`](#editable) property to disable the editing of the user prompt.
::

::card{icon="i-ri-braces-line"}

**Kirby Query Language**<br>
You can use a query to set the user prompt dynamically. Useful in conjunction with non-editable prompts.

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
userPrompt: "{{ page.myPrompt.value }}"
```

::

### `systemPrompt` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If you want to define a system prompt, you can do so with the `systemPrompt` property. The Panel user will not be able to edit or see the prompt. It is only needed to instruct the AI how to structure the generated text.

The value will be inherited from the [global `systemPrompt` configuration](/docs/configuration/global#systemprompt) if not defined in the section blueprint.

::callout{icon="i-ri-ai-generate" to="/docs/configuration/system-prompt"}
Learn more about the system prompt and how to customize it.
::

::callout{icon="i-ri-braces-line"}
Kirby queries are supported just as in the `userPrompt` property.
::

### `storage` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If the user prompt is editable (being either predefined or empty), the prompt will be stored in the local storage of the user's browser. This is done to prevent the user from losing the prompt when navigating away from the page.

The default value is `true`.

To disable the storage of the user prompt, set the `storage` property to `false`:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
storage: false
```

### `editable` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

By default, the user prompt is editable. This makes most sense of no user prompt has been defined in the blueprint options.

If a custom `userPrompt` has been set and you want to disable the editing of the prompt, you can do so by setting the `editable` property to `false`:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
userPrompt: Write a short story about the evolution of the universe.
editable: false
```

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-immutable.png"}
::

### `files` :u-badge{label="Boolean | String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

::callout{icon="i-ri-lightbulb-line"}
Learn more about working with files on the dedicated [Files as Context](/docs/usage/files) page.
::

Context is key to a good user prompt. That's why the Panel user can add files to a given prompt.

The default value is `true`.

If you want to disable the files select button and thus prevent the user from adding files to the prompt, you can do so by setting the `files` property to `false`:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
files: false
```

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-config-files.png"}
::

On a Kirby file page, you can set the value to `auto` to pre-select the **current file as context** for the user prompt. This is useful if you want to generate text for a specific file, such as an image or PDF, that has already been uploaded to the Panel:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: alt
# Use the uploaded file as context
files: auto
# Optional: Provide a pre-defined user prompt
userPrompt: Write an alternative text for the provided image. Use a maximum of 10 words.
# Optional: Disable the editing of the user prompt
editable: false
```

The section above will use the current file of a Kirby file model as context for the user prompt:

:prose-video{src="/vid/kirby-copilot-generate-image-alt.mp4" poster="/vid/kirby-copilot-generate-image-alt-poster.jpg" width="960" height="540"}

### `theme` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `theme` property allows you to set the color theme of the section. The default value is `notice-icon`.

To change the section theme back to Kirby Copilot v1, you can set the `theme` property to `positive`:

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
field: blocks
theme: positive
```

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-config-theme.png"}
::

### `size` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Determines how the section button group (**Generate**, **Undo**, **Redo**) is displayed. By default, the buttons are displayed in `md` (medium) size.

### `open` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `open` property allows you to set the initial state of the prompt input accordion. By default, the accordion is closed.

### `help` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

As with most other Kirby fields and sections, you can define a help text for the Copilot section. This text can be used to provide additional information or instructions to the user.

```yaml [sections/copilot.yml]
type: copilot
help: |
  Example: Write a summary of this page and include the contents of {blocks}.
```
