---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to install and configure the plugin in your Kirby project.
---

## Quick Start

### Step 1: Install the Plugin

#### Download

After your purchase, you will receive a download link for the plugin. Download the ZIP file and extract it to your `site/plugins` folder. It should look like this:

```
site/plugins/
├─ kirby-copilot/
│  └─ … All plugin files
```

#### Composer :u-badge{label="v1.5.1+" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The recommended way to install the plugin is via Composer. Since it's not available through Packagist, you will need to connect to our private repository [repo.kirby.tools](https://repo.kirby.tools) and authenticate your package download. Authentication is done via a license code that you can get from the [Kirby Tools Hub](https://hub.kirby.tools) after your purchase.

:prose-video{src="/vid/kirby-tools-hub-license.mp4" poster="/vid/kirby-tools-hub-license-poster.jpg" width="908" height="540"}

To get access to the private repository and enable Composer installs, follow these steps:

1. Go to [hub.kirby.tools](https://hub.kirby.tools). Log in with the email you used for the purchase and the order number.
2. After successful login, a license code will be displayed next to the Composer repository configuration and a CLI command.
3. Copy and paste the Composer configuration into your `composer.json` file. This will enable Composer to resolve our plugins. Your `composer.json` file should include this repository item:
   ```json [composer.json]
   {
     "repositories": [
       {
         "type": "composer",
         "url": "https://repo.kirby.tools"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
4. Copy and run the Composer CLI command, which will generate an `auth.json` file for you, a Composer standard for authenticating against private repositories. Composer will send your license key (or license keys if you have purchased multiple plugins) as a bearer token with each request to `repo.kirby.tools`. As an alternative to running the command, you can create the file yourself. An `auth.json` file should look like this:
   ```json [auth.json]
   {
     "bearer": {
       "repo.kirby.tools": "KT1-gd9Ymx30rM-ylZ3h6yF3l"
     }
   }
   ```

To install multiple plugins in one Kirby project, add all required license codes to your local `auth.json` file. Separate each license code with a comma, e.g:

```json [auth.json]
{
  "bearer": {
    "repo.kirby.tools": "KT1-A, KT1-B"
  }
}
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
The license code is unique to your purchase and should be kept private. We recommend to exclude it from version control by adding it to your `.gitignore` file.
::

The Kirby Tools Composer repository is now set up. You can install the plugin by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
composer require johannschopplich/kirby-copilot
```

Last but not least, you can manage Kirby Copilot like any other plugin, for example, download updates:

```bash
composer update
```

### Step 2: AI Provider Configuration

Configure the AI provider by setting the **API key** and **AI model** in the global Kirby configuration. Each provider has its own configuration key. To get started with OpenAI, create a new [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) and add it to the configuration along with the AI model such as GPT-4 Turbo:

```php [config.php]
return [
    'johannschopplich.copilot' => [
        'providers' => [
            'openai' => [
                'model' => 'gpt-4-turbo',
                'apiKey' => 'YOUR_API_KEY'
            ]
        ]
    ]
];
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-error-warning-line" color="amber"}
We recommend to create a unique API key for each project. This way, you can easily revoke access to the API key if needed.
::

### Step 3: Blueprint Setup

To display the Copilot section in the Kirby Panel, add a section of type `copilot` to your blueprint:

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
sections:
  copilot:
    type: copilot
    field: blocks
```

The only required section property is `field`. This is the target field of the Kirby model that will be used to write the generated text to.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Supported field types are `blocks`, `writer`, `textarea` and `text`. Other field types will be added in the future if there is enough demand.
::

After adding the section, you can start using the plugin in the Kirby Panel. The accordion will be closed by default:

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-closed.png"}
::

Click on the arrow to open the accordion and start entering your prompt:

::preview{src="/img/copilot-section-open.png"}
::
